
miniFE finite-element mini-application

--------------------------------------
Contents of this README file:
1. miniFE overview
2. miniFE versions
3. building miniFE
4. running miniFE
5. notes about the code
--------------------------------------

--------------------------------------
1. miniFE overview

miniFE is a Finite Element mini-application which implements a
couple of kernels representative of implicit finite-element applications.
It assembles a sparse linear-system from the steady-state conduction
equation on a brick-shaped problem domain of linear 8-node hex elements.
It then solves the linear-system using a simple un-preconditioned
conjugate-gradient algorithm.

Thus the kernels that it contains are:
- computation of element-operators (diffusion matrix, source vector)
- assembly (scattering element-operators into sparse matrix and vector)
- sparse matrix-vector product (during CG solve)
- vector operations (level-1 blas: axpy, dot, norm)

Finally, miniFE compares the computed solution against an analytic solution
for steady-state temperature in a cube.


--------------------------------------
2. miniFE versions:
- miniFE_ref:
     reference version: self-contained, includes serial and MPI-parallel
     parallelism is optional, it can be built without MPI usage.
     no explicit mesh data-base, generates virtual mesh data as needed.

- miniFE_nodeAPI:
     self-contained version that includes MPI-parallel and Node-API parallelism
     parallelism is optional, it can be built without MPI usage.
     no explicit mesh data-base, generates virtual mesh data as needed.

- stk:
     depends on stk-mesh out of Trilinos, uses stk-mesh to store mesh data.

-------------------
3. Building miniFE:

 The default case is: cd into the 'miniFE_ref' directory and type 'make'.
 That will build the MPI-parallel miniFE code assuming you have the
 mpi-compiler-wrappers mpicxx and mpicc in your path.

 If successful, that will create an executable called miniFE.x.

Special builds can be done for things like:
- gnu compilers (g++, gcc), no MPI
  type 'make -f makefile.gnu.serial'

- enable Intel TBB support.
  In the miniFE_nodeAPI version:
  Edit makefile.tbb to set the path to your installation of Intel TBB, then
  type 'make -f makefile.tbb'

- enable NVidia/CUDA support.
  In the miniFE_nodeAPI version:
  Edit makefile.cuda to set the path to your installation of NVidia/CUDA, then
  type 'make -f makefile.cuda'

- enable TPI (ThreadPool) support.
  In the miniFE_nodeAPI version:
  Edit makefile.tpi to set the path to your installation of ThreadPool, then
  type 'make -f makefile.tpi'

- enable the use of the Sierra Toolkit mesh database stk::mesh, along with
  TPI threading.
  In the miniFE_stkmesh version:
  (At this time TPI threading is only used in the kernels
  used by the CG solve, not in any stk::mesh operations.)
  type 'make -f makefile.stk.tpi'

If the default makefile isn't correct for your system, copy and edit and
use a 'make -f' command similar to the above cases.

Note 1:
  'make' calls the script 'generate_info_header' to generate miniFE_info.hpp
  with platform and build information. If that script fails for some reason and 
  doesn't produce a valid miniFE_info.hpp header, you can still build miniFE by 
  typing
  'make MINIFE_INFO=0'.
 
Note 2:
  miniFE contains support for using the 'long long' integer type. If your
  compiler doesn't support that type, add this macro to the CPPFLAGS in
  the makefile: -DMINIFE_NO_LONG_LONG

-------------------
4. Running miniFE:

 miniFE can be run like this:
   % <mpi-run-command> miniFE.x nx=30 ny=30 nz=30 
 where <mpi-run-command> varies from system to system but usually looks
 something like 'mpirun -np 4 ' or similar.

 Arguments can be specified in a number of ways. The following are all valid:
   -nx 20 -ny 30 -nz 40
   nx 20 ny 30 nz 40
   nx:20 ny:30 nz:40
   nx=20 ny=30 nz=40
   nx = 20 ny = 30 nz = 40
   nx20 ny30 nz40
 
 Arguments can appear in any order.

 Arguments can also be supplied in an input file, like this:
   miniFE.x input_file=<filename>
 where <filename> is a text file containing the parameters.

 A YAML output file created by miniFE is also a valid input file.

Arguments to miniFE:
 - nx, ny, nz
   The global sizes nx, ny, nz of the 'box' domain from which a finite-element
   problem is assembled and solved.
   If only nx is specified, then ny and nz will default to be the same as nx.

 - mv_overlap_comm_comp
   Valid values are 0 or 1. Defaults to 0 (off).
   If 1 (on), then matrix-vector products are performed with overlapping 
   communication and computation.
   In other words, a matrix-vector product is performed like this:
   1. post receives, do sends
   2. compute local portion of matrix-vector product
   3. complete receives
   4. compute external portion of matrix-vector product.

 - load_imbalance
   Specify that miniFE should artificially UN-balance the decomposition by
   this 'load_imbalance' percentage. The problem domain is initially
   decomposed using an RCB method which attempts to balance the subdomains.
   The load_imbalance parameter is used to specify a minimum amount of imbalance.
   miniFE will adjust the decomposition from RCB in an attempt to add an imbalance
   greater than or equal to the percentage specified.

 - numthreads
   Only if threading support (TPI or TBB, see "Building miniFE" above) has
   been compiled in. Specifies number of threads per processor.

 - elem_group_size
   When using threading with TBB, the FE assembly pipeline operates on elements
   in groups. This argument specifies the number of elements in a group.
   Defaults to 1.

 - use_locking
   When using the TBB pipelined FE assembly, use_locking determines what kind
   of filters are used for assembling into the linear-system.
   use_locking==1 uses the parallel filter with locking to prevent thread conflicts.
   use_locking==0 (default) uses a filter which doesn't need locking.

 - name
   An extra string that will be part of the filename for the output YAML file.
   No checking is performed, but you should probably not use slash '/' or other
   characters that might cause problems in filenames.

 - verify_solution
   Defaults to 0 which means don't verify the solution. if 'verify_solution=1' is
   passed, then the computed solution will be compared against an analytic solution.

-------------------
5. The code:
 The main program is located in main.cpp. It calls miniFE::driver to do most
 of the assembly/solve work. If desired, change main.cpp to adjust the
 template-parameters given to miniFE::driver, to switch from double to float,
 or from int to long long, etc.

 If the code fails to compile after changing these template parameters, it may
 be because a new traits type specialization needs to be added to
 TypeTraits.hpp.


 General comments describing what the code is doing are located in main.cpp and
 driver.hpp.

